Washington (CNN)For Republican candidates dreaming of starring in the first presidential debate, Donald Trump is both the road and the roadblock to turning that into a reality.

Trump's rise -- punctuated with an exclamation point in a poll this week that showed that he was the first choice of one-quarter of Republican voters -- is scrunching together the rearguard of the GOP field, putting six candidates in danger of either falling off the stage or in hopes of crawling onto it. And the Trump boomlet could be starving those on the precipice from the attention they need to secure their standing.

Out of a desire to apply the lessons of a ceaseless debate schedule in 2012, Republican Party officials decided to rein in the process by limiting the total number of official forums leading up to the 2016 election. There will be 9 official televised debates as a result. Host networks Fox and CNN decided to offer further restrictions of who would participate in the debates in hopes of managing the expansive field. Fox said it will only invite the top 10 finishers in recent opinion polls to debate, whereas CNN will split the field in two: those polling in the top 10 and then a separate debate with the rest of the field so long as they reach 1% in national polls.

With two weeks to go until Republicans spar in Cleveland, the buried candidates are climbing feverishly to land an invitation that keeps them relevant to both donors and early state voters throughout the summer. Hopefuls are questioning the mechanics of the debate rules, launching unconventional television campaigns and latching onto the shiny object that has dominated media coverage over the past month: Trump.

RELATED: GOP to Trump: You crossed the line

Given the fractured field that split even more with the entry of Ohio Gov. John Kasich on Tuesday, only a few Republican candidates can be confident they'll be one of the 10 chosen to appear in prime time on Fox News on August 6. After Monday's ABC/Washington Post survey, six aspirants are within one percentage point of being tied for two spots on the stage, according to CNN's most recent analysis of surveys.
